So let's talk about context.
So this next one here, the first level
second, this one here on the right side,
this is context.
So, you can see here, I have a very
professional username here Bob Olsen.
That's Bob Robertson example.com.
This is an example object
that we're creating here.
So let's talk about what context is and
what context solves.
And we go over this a decent amount
in the complete intro to react.
So if you want more intro to context,
there's a good section on that there.
But there is a kinda problem in react
because data flows very explicit in react.
You have a component that lives
in the top component like your
app.js overall arching application.
But you'll have components five
layers down that you need to read.
Then from that component, right?
So say for example, here and
this component has something
here at first level.
And I needed to read it from down here.
In this particular level, right?
If this was if I was not using context,
I'd have to pass that piece of data parent
to child parent to child parent
to child all the way down, right?
So you can see here I have my level,
one component here.
Which is like the context component,
right?
That then renders a level two here, right?
Then renders a level three,
that renders a level four,
that renders a level five, right?
If I wanted to pass the user
state down here to level two.
I'd have to do this bit by bit by
saying user state equals user state.
It and then I'd have to do this on
every single one of them right?
I'd have to do it here.
Then I'd have to do it here.
And this will come in from props,
right props that user state.
Again and so on and so forth.
And I'd have to prop drill
that's the name of that problem.
In the react community.
And we used to have to have to
do this all the time, right?
So this component like level two and level
three, they don't care at all about user
state cuz they're not reading reading
from it, they're not rendering it.
All they're doing is they're just passing
it from the parent to the child blindly.
This is a problem on several levels.
One, it just makes your code more
complicated than it needs to be, right.
And then the other thing is like if I
go to test level two or level three.
I have to like pass in these arbitrary
things because it expects them even though
it's not using them.
Or maybe like level three
was like more reusable and.
But it doesn't always
need that user state.
I still have to would have to pass
in that user state because they're
expected, right?
So enter context.
You can think of context as
basically like a wormhole
in your application that you can
like dump stuff in one side.
And it's gonna come out
the other side right?
So here in this user context provider,
I'm dumping in the value of user state,
which is this hook from here, right.
It does not have to be a hook, right.
It could be anything, right.
It can be a string, it can be an object,
it can be anything, right.
I'm just using the hook here
because it's convenient, right.
And then here down at
the bottom inside of this,
I'm using the US context here
to pull out that hook, right?
So I have something I'm creating here,
level one.
And then I'm reading it
down here at level five.
That's what context does for you.
So I'm gonna now that I've taught you this
like magic way to circumvent the one way
data flow of react,
please use it very sparingly.
Because now I have this very
I haven't have level five and
level one that are kinda tied together.
But it's not explicit, right?
It's hard to reason about that.
If I'm reading my code, especially
like if I'm hearing like level four or
level three.
I'm like wondering how
the hell does it get?
Does this child component get
access to that information, right?
Because but typically with react
you'd see that prop drilling.
So I'm kinda talking out of
both sides of my mouth here of
like hey here's this really cool way
of doing it never do it that way right.
To me what's important here.
And the reason why I chose
like a user here is you want.
Things that go into context
be application level state.
And when I say application level state,
things like users, right?
So if I'm logged into my user account,
I have to read and
write to that user account
from all over my application.
So the example that I used in the intro
is like your Netflix user account.
I have to be able to set my settings
which reads from the user account,
I have to be able to see
my streaming preferences.
Which comes from the user account
have to be able to upgrade my plan or
downgrade my plan or cancel my plan.
All those things read
from the user accounts.
So that is universal application state.
The user makes sense to my
entire application soon.
That is a wonderful candidate for
something to put into context.
But I don't know a counter or something,
you're just lazing you
don't wanna pass around.
That's not a great candidate
to put into context.
Okay and then the last thing I was gonna
show you here is because I'm using a hook.
You can update it from level
five down here right so
I have a button here that if I click.
Notice here that I can increment it down
here, this number is incrementing here.
Despite the fact that that's still
state is being stored up here.
In level one, right.
Despite the fact that the it's being
called down here in level five.
So you can do things that where
you can actually update the parent
as well from the child held.
But again, it's a very implicit
relationship that those
things have their implicit
code is the worst code.
Because it just makes it
hard to follow and debug.
If there was a bug here on James
the Jameson the it was like skipping to be
every two or something like that.
It's kinda hard to reason about it.
At that point, what's going wrong.
Because we have this context,
worm hole in the middle of it.
And we don't know which
side has the problem.
It just makes it harder to debug.
As you can tell, I basically like my
entire theory around programming.
Because I know I'm gonna
make a lot of mistakes.
How can I recover from
those mistakes the fastest?
Yeah, that's sad.
[LAUGH] Anyway, anyone have any
questions about context or use context?
I guess I didn't really
touch on the hook very much.
If it's the use context hook is
like one of the nicest to use.
All you have to do is give it the context,
which is this create context thing here.
And then you can just pull
things out of context.
Pull things out of context.
Nice, anyway.
Yes.
>> How do you avoid the urge
to not use context everywhere?
Experience I think is
the answer to that question.
I've had enough problems of where is
this coming from also I used to use
the old react context API
which was a mess, right?
So I think that react context just
sends chills down my spine so
that helps a lot to me.
I don't use it everywhere because
most things are not application level
states, right?
Most things are like view state, right?
Sure, am I in dark mode or
light mode, actually,
that would be a good candidate but
in context as well.
Because that would apply your entire app.
The like is this button on or off right.
That's definitely like view level state.
Most things in your application you're
gonna end up being view level state.
If a user is filling out a form right
I don't need to store that in the for
the entire application to read
from it just stays there.
So, yeah I recognize that as soon as
I introduce context I'm introducing
something that can be
really hard to debug later.
And that keeps me from
putting everything in there.
>> Can use context be scoped
if I create a context and
a component is available to the whole
app or only in the component children.
>> Good question.
Which I didn't actually
cover super well here.
So create context here.
This gives you like this
user context object.
There's two things that come on this.
One of them is the provider.
So you can see here I'm wrapping this
entire component in the user context
provider.
Everything inside of this provider
can then access that context.
Nothing outside of that context, can
access the data inside of that context.
So you actually you are actually
scoping it to that part of the app.
I can actually have two separate,
context components here.
That have different contexts right.
You can also nest it right so
I can actually put it.
Another provider here in fact
let's just do it it might be fun.
User context provider and
value equals use state I guess
I need the whole object don't I.
User context provider, that one.
So you can see here now it's actually
reading from the closer one here
Sam Sanderson instead of James Jamison.
Because this one's closer to it right.
So you can actually have like sub scopes.
So I really don't want you to do this
because this would be even like we're
talking about making things hard to debug.
You could definitely see a situation
where like I found where the context is
coming from.
And then you don't realize that there's
a context in between the two of them.
I don't really know when you would
have a good reason to do this, but
I'm just letting you know it's possible.
But please don't.
Don't make me regret showing you that.
If you really like Redux but you don't
wanna pull in the whole Redux library.
And we'll talk about Redux later.
If you use the two hooks together,
use context and use reducer.
You kinda get like most of what Redux is.
Fun fact.
>> How do you usually handle more than one
different types of objects in a context?
>> How do you handle more than one
type of object inside of context?
You just put make it an object, right?
So you can see here,
I have this object here which is a user.
If I had,
well there's two ways of going about this.
You can either have two
different contexts, right?
So I could create a user context and
a preferences context, right?
Or I could have one talk context
where I have A top level.
I have an object and inside of the object
there is the preferences part of it.
And there is the user part of it, right?
Basically treating it like
a Redux store at that point.
And you might be asked me
which one is preferable and
I'm gonna say that's super contextual
to what you're doing unintended.
[LAUGH] There's not a right or
wrong answer there.
You can make cases for both of them.
And I don't think that I have
strong feelings either way.
It would be annoying if I
looked at an application and
there was like 19 of these contexts
providers wrapping things.
So there's definitely a layer
of too little granularity.
But if you have two things that
are totally unalike in the same context
I also take a little bit
of offense at that as well.
So somewhere in the middle
I guess is my answer.